add dev docs for kfp/sdk (#11046)
kubeflow/pipelines: sdk/CONTRIBUTING.md

## Contributing to the `kfp` SDK

For developing KFP v2 for SDK use the `master` branch.

For developing KFP v1 for SDK use the [sdk/release-1.8 branch](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/sdk/release-1.8) to submit your changes.

For general contribution guidelines including pull request conventions, see [pipelines/CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

> ### Pre-requisites 

Reviewer: We have the pre-requisites as a bash script: https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/test/presubmit-test-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh
Today the script has two main responsibilities:
- Setup the local environment 
- Execute the test

Adding the text in this file is duplicating the effort while doing the maintenance. That script is used in the GHA to ensure that everything goes well while submitting a change upstream.

I see areas of improvement:
- Create a new script called `presubmit-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh`
- Change `presubmit-test-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh` to do a call to `presubmit-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh`
- Make `presubmit-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh` agnostic to support Fedora and Ubuntu
- Add a reference in this file to call `presubmit-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh` before starting working or while doing a test locally

Reviewer: The content of `presubmit-kfp-kubernetes-library.sh` is:
```
source_root=$(pwd)

pip install --upgrade pip
pip install wheel

pip install sdk/python
apt-get update && apt-get install -y protobuf-compiler
pushd api
make clean python
popd
python3 -m pip install api/v2alpha1/python
pip install api/v2alpha1/python

# generate Python proto code from source
pushd "$source_root/kubernetes_platform"
make clean python
popd

# rust needed for transitive deps in dev extras on Python:3.12
apt-get install rustc -y
pip install -e "$source_root/kubernetes_platform/python[dev]"
```

As I mentioned above, you should make it agnostic to support Ubuntu or Fedora

Author: I think that's a good suggestion, but out of scope of this pr.

Reviewer: I don't see it as out of the scope of the PR. We are introducing duplicated information

Author: changing ci, and pre-commit tooling is definitely a task in it's own right and out of scope of this is simple pr to just add more documentation

Clone the repo: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines.git && cd pipelines
```

> We recommend working within a [virtual env](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) when developing for the SDK.

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend specifying some stable Python version for the user to develop with. There can be quite a bit of variance in the stability of different packages.

Reviewer: Also, I don't think we recommend `virtual env`.

Reviewer: Imho, it is more suitable to say that the user should use a "package manager". There are a lot of options upstream. That is more community-friendly.

Author: venv is not a package manager, that would be pi, but more so a tool to create isolated environments, still I agree we should not be opinionated here as there are other tools, I will rephrase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use [virtual env](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) when developing the SDK or whatever Python environment manager you prefer.
```

Author: posted an update

```bash
python -m pip install -U pip wheel setuptools
```

All sdk development requirement versions are pinned in [requirements-dev.txt](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/sdk/python/requirements-dev.txt).

```bash
pip install -r sdk/python/requirements-dev.txt
```

Install the SDK in development mode using the `--editable` or `-e` flag. This will allow you to implement and test changes iteratively.
Read more about it [here](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/development_mode.html).

```bash
pip install -e sdk/python
```

The SDK also relies on a couple other python packages also found within KFP.
These consists of the [api proto package](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/api) and the kfp [kubernetes_platform](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/kubernetes_platform) package.

For the proto code, we need protobuf-compiler to generate the python code. Find instructions for your system for your package manager [here](https://grpc.io/docs/protoc-installation/).
For Linux, using apt or apt-get, for example:
```bash

> apt-get install -y protobuf-compiler

Reviewer 3: latest version of protoc causes problems. I've found that 21.12 works. I made a note about it in kubernetes_platform (https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/kubernetes_platform#dependencies) but missed adding a similar note here.

Related, I guess we should share the changes in this PR with kubernetes_platform somehow.

Author: I've just went ahead and linked to that section instead

## Contributing to the `kfp` SDK

For developing KFP v2 SDK, use the `master` branch.

For developing KFP v1 SDK, use the [sdk/release-1.8 branch](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/sdk/release-1.8).

For general contribution guidelines including pull request conventions, see [pipelines/CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Pre-requisites 

Clone the repo: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines.git && cd pipelines
```

We suggest using a tool like [virtual env](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) or something similar for isolating 

> your environment and/or packages for you development environment. For this setup we'll stick with `virtual env`. 

Reviewer 3: what's the significance of "virtual env" being in the backticks?

Author: removed

Reviewer 3: resolved

For supported python versions, see the sdk [setup.py](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/sdk/python/setup.py). 

> It's suggested that you pick a version close to the highest in that list.

Reviewer 4: When using a high version, a developer may add code/syntax that doesn't exist in older versions. I'd say to always use the oldest supported version.

Author: we have dissenting voices here (@franciscojavierarceo feels otherwise), I'm going to remove this line and keep this part unopinionated.

Author: removed
